Our next demonstration will allow us to discover more of the
Cucumber capabilities that will make the creation of
acceptance test easier and more flexible.
Based on the newly discovered capabilities where we refine our
already existing acceptance tests by introducing scenario
outlines with data examples table, and consequently,
allowing the end user to have more control into defining the business needs.
We were saying that we would like to introduce and
discover more Cucumber capabilities.
The acceptance test that we have previously presented are a
first step towards verifying the business needs,
but they are still awkward and too generic.
It would be much simpler if we could parameterize
our tests so that we do not have, for example,
to write all particular verifications into the code.
It would be more convenient for the end user to be able to define his own tests
on particular datasets to write them directly into the feature file and not to
need to extend the Java code and to recompile it.
In order to do this, we'll introduce the scenario outline.
This will allow us to parameterize the tests.
So we'll remove this given, when,
then scenario and we'll introduce a parameterized one.
Given we have the flight defined into file1,
and file2, and file3, these are the 3 files that are defining our flights.
When the passengers travel according to the data recorded into these files,
then passenger with identifier, identifier,
and name, name, and countryCode, countryCode,
has been awarded points, points.
We still need to introduce the examples table and this is how it looks like.
We recognize all the parameters of the previously defined scenario outline,
file1, file2, file3, identifier, name, countryCode,
and points.
We are going to generate the new skeleton of the tests.
We see that Cucumber has generated the declaration
of the missing methods for us.
We move to our old bonus_policy Java class and introduce the
newly parameterized generated methods so that we can fill
them in with our testing logic.
Cucumber has generated an appropriate set of
methods with the needed annotations.
The method information that determines the association with the correct
step as defined into the .feature file is the annotation,
but for our convenience and for clarity,
we'll replace the names of the parameters.
Given we have the flights defined into fileName1,
and fileName2, and fileName3, these are the new names of the parameters,
and we are also inserting here the testing logic when the passengers
travel according to the data recording into these files.
Here, we are keeping the previously existing testing logic,
then the passenger with identifier, identifier,
name, name, countryCode, countryCode has been awarded points,
points,
and we are inserting here this line of code that is making the
appropriate verification for each line of the examples table.
We also have to remove the old testing methods.
Let's run the tests.
Great!
It works fine and our tests are parameterized and easier to follow.
When the business analyst would like to add new datasets to tests,
he can simply add them here.
There is no need to have a programmer and there is also no need to recompile the code.